all right step ahead Jim
okay intros my name is jim hinchik I
worked at protocol labs working
currently on the infrastructure a
testing team and also do pure pad in
pure base and writing and how how
offline er those projects currently not
super offline
I tested pure base and it actually does
work offline which is sort of neat but
like the it it coordinates to other
nodes in a web browser using a WebSocket
server so if you're offline you can't
talk to that so that you need to figure
out some way of actually talking
peer-to-peer but yeah gotcha ok cool
we're doing a quick round of intros for
those who just showed up just sort of
who you are and why you're interested in
this crossover between you web and
offline first justin you want to go next
yeah so I'm really interested in offline
first indie web because I think that
there's a lot of opportunity there I
think that it better reflects kind of
the way that we interact as human beings
with our devices so I think it'll be
really cool when I can be like hey I've
got this thing on my phone let's let's
do it together and then I can just give
you the data from my phone and we can
start interacting using this app so
offline first plus d web is is awesome
so that's me I created the gathering as
far as offline meanness goes it's kind
of the same constraint it's Jim it works
offline but since it uses WebSockets
because it's in the browser it's pretty
much still centralized and so you need
something to connect to to get the
browsers to talk that's me and I'll
piggyback off that I'm Victor board but
I'm in independent developer and work
with Justin among the gathering
so I'm working all night confessing web
browsers more or less and related to
local offline is my current work on
running embedded Giuseppe FS inside of
brain browser and what I want to happen
is for people in like conferences or
like remote places as long they have a
shared Wi-Fi or something similar for
those two web browsers people should be
basically able to open web UI or add
stuff to ipfs and those two web browsers
should be able to exchange data with
each other somehow so that's like local
discovery in web browser is a big
question mark right now and I'd like to
get some idea yes around that Dominic
yeah
so I've mentioned this a couple times
but like I as like a user and growing up
in the place that I did I kind of got
really frustrated at a lot of things
that we depended on not working or like
really appreciated the value of having
this vast searchable network to learn
from so I find that really important and
I get a little frustrated at how fragile
and like hard to work with some of that
stuff is so I work on go ipfs and try to
make it matter less if if your thing is
online are all fine if you're connected
or not and just try to keep the data
accessible to people so that's it for me
cool yarnís yeah hello
I'm Janice research at protocol labs I'm
only on the content routing and DHT
issues
I'm also or at least incoming on
academic background and have very
long-standing interest in offline
communication so what has been
traditionally called in the past at
least in academic circles delay-tolerant
networking I think yeah we've written
our first papers about 10 years ago or
something so and since then we've been
developing protocols and mechanisms to
connect devices or flying propagate
content from HB possibly using some
relays and things like that yeah so but
then you know mobile phones were not
even a thing now these things are made
easier we thought and we're actually
some for some of them we've got some
demos and libraries or applications just
described before kind of distributed
data synchronization between mobile
device I can talk more in detail about
that in some yeah that would be great
we'd love to have you do them out one of
the I assume we don't have anyone else
working here who I've met so I have kind
of two two main things on the agenda for
today one is we want to give Justin a
Victor a chance to show us the gathering
which is working its way towards fully
offline but is definitely in this
concept of this like local collaboration
idea and on its way there technically
and the other is just an opportunity for
anyone who's on this call who was at
either a pesky
ordy web can't just share anything they
found out about their any of these
conversations that are in this offline
the web space that seemed interesting so
let's kick it off with Justin and Victor
and then we can circle back with the
time we have left so if either of you
can go ahead and share your screen I
assume you have those powers yeah I
think Justin's happy sharing the screen
okay um so this is Victor um I think I
was going to just give a very brief
overview of sort of what our intentions
were with this and sort of how we
ideated and got to where we were with
the gathering at ipfs camp and what we
sort of ideally want to see with the
hope that some of the folks on this call
are some of the right people to kind of
you know point us in the right direction
as far as what sorts of technologies
might be able to get us from where we
are now to the more promised land of
offline offline capabilities excuse me
so the gathering is this idea that kind
of came out of Denver where Justin and I
met in February this year and we were
interested in this idea of trying to
build something very small in the sense
of having a very limited temporal and
location-based setting that was kind of
a fun thing for the meet space where
people are actually getting together and
that used all kinds of you know sort of
distributed technologies and
decentralized ideas to actually improve
and enhance a you know very centralized
specific meet space event and this is
kind of coming from the sort of
background that I didn't come to ipfs or
even Denver with it with a full
technical background I was a lawyer for
a long time and I've sort of come into
this space via blockchain and so the
first things that appeal to me are the
things that are more kind of consumer
friendly and so you know one of the
things that's that's very clear in the
space is that there aren't a ton of
things that are you know ready for any
kind of you know mass use or even just
individual use that normal people can
understand and so you know that was one
of the ideas here is can we use the
existing
centralized technologies to just make
something small and fun and so what we
kind of came up with is this idea that
there's there's a real problem with
actually exchanging contact information
when you meet people at a particular
event that has its own context because
typically the things that are out there
are profiles that people have let's say
on Twitter or on LinkedIn or on other
particular platforms or telegram where
it's all very focused on that particular
platforms utilization and so we were
thinking be neat to have this idea of
customizing existing sort of profile
information that you have and sort of
sharing different slices of yourself
that we're very customized to the types
of people that you were meeting and the
thing that kind of brought you together
and so we were always thinking about a
couple of use cases for this that are
beyond you know specific tech
conferences and ipfs meetups in this
kind of thing we think about things like
college orientations where kids are
first meeting each other and are trying
to find their their sort of peer group
we think about moments like you know
absolutely like like professional
gatherings and this kind of thing and we
were just trying to think of something
that would enhance those experiences
without without sort of overriding them
and so we came up with this idea of an
incentivized contact swapping protocol
so you insert the information that you
want to share with people that you meet
at a particular gathering whoever
launches the gathering sets a sort of
time deadline for when it's going to end
and this could be the organizer of a
gathering it could be anybody that just
is attending one of these things and
then it creates this sort of this p2p
network that will essentially terminate
at the end and it doesn't totally
terminate the network doesn't go away
but the incentivization mechanisms go
away at the end of the expiration of the
time period and so the incentivization
is you can meet each other and what you
could exchange contact information with
the folks that you meet at the gathering
and then once you've collected a number
of different contexts you have the
ability within the app and it's sort of
encouraged through the incentivization
structure to recommend that people meet
each other and so the idea being that
we're trying to raise the likelihood
that people haven't find and make
deep and meaningful connections with
each other at these types of events
because it's definitely our sense that
as great as events like ipfs camp are
which was one of the best types of
events of those those type that I've
ever been to you always have this idea
that you know there was one person that
you didn't talk to that maybe would have
been a transformative relationship that
could have come from that where it would
have given you a new solution to a
problem you're having or it could have
been you know the sort of formulation of
a new type of project that changed your
career and so this idea that there are
always this like this lost potential
whenever people that have the same sort
of affinities get together and so what
we're trying to do is incentivize people
to help you know shrink that gap of lost
potential not get rid of it but really
just reduce it and and encourage people
to make more and deeper connections with
the people that they're you know most
aligned with and so the way that this
happens in the app is you essentially
have blockchain based trophies that are
incentivizing matchmaking behavior where
you're allowed to make recommendations
that so-and-so meet so-and-so and if
those two people do meet the matchmaker
is rewarded in the system and trophies
are minted on a blockchain to show off
as badges of community good behavior and
one of the neat things about this is
that you can start to calculate average
degrees of separation of all the other
members within a particular gathering
we're calling that the Kevin Bacon score
that each person has a Kevin Bacon score
and then the whole gathering has a Kevin
Bacon score and so you can kind of look
at look at sort of how tightly knit a
community is based on the number of
people that are in there and how many
connections they're making in
recommendations etc so with that kind of
ambition we wanted to build something
using ipfs a little bit of blockchain
and then right now and Justin will talk
a bit more about where we are
technically we're using WebSockets and
we're using a signaling server and we
have had to rely on you know persistent
online connection at ipfs camp however
the goal is to get to using technologies
that allow folks to do this I think one
of our aims here is to have the
gathering work in a cave as long as
people have devices so with that kind of
basic introduction and we'll turn it
over to Justin to kind of walk through
where we're at cool thanks for that
intro I think that covers it yeah Victor
and I met back it at youth Denver and it
was at a team-building thing people are
basically saying the things that they
were interested in so they could find
other people to work with at the
hackathon and it was like well of course
this thing needs to exist we're all here
there's like 200 people here trying to
do this exact thing obviously we need a
tool that can help us do this because
otherwise how are we gonna get organized
and find each other so when I heard him
talk about making games for the
meatspace like like The Gathering I was
like oh well this is a this is given
this needs to exist and so it's been a
work of love and we were asked to
present a lightning talk on it for ipfs
camp and so we had to hurry and get it
ready and get it into a state where
could semi work and it was a whole
learning process as well which not to
talk about at the end of this so like
you talked about there's a bunch of
different slices that we have of
ourselves the things that we care about
that we go to conferences and and
there's people around us that care about
those things as well but it's hard to
even know that they're interested in
those things like you might be having a
conversation about you know you web and
not know that they're also interested in
decentralized IP or decentralized
finance or something like that or even
something way distant from the
centralization so to be able to start to
expose things that you care about that
you you want to talk to other people
about is is a really interesting
opportunity so I've put together a
little demo for this call if you have a
phone you can scan this QR code or you
can just go to this URL right here on
your computer and what's inside of that
code and inside of this little shortcut
link is a orbit DB address which is what
you'll use to basically get the data for
the database that we're all sharing as
part of the gathering and then a member
ID which is what you're going to use to
connect with me so I've already joined
the gathering you're going to send a
connect request to me and then a pure ID
so it's going to be the idea of a device
that you'll then connect to to basically
download the
that you need and help bootstrap the
connections to the other peers within
the gathering so you guys all have a
chance to get that I'm gonna switch to a
screen so we can do a little live demo
here about how this thing works all
right so if you need to get in yeah
gather a Oh G th RI o / demo and then
inside of here hey look at that there's
all you guys so awesome and it's live
updating so you guys are in there
already some of you probably already
experienced this at ipfs camp so I'm
gonna go ahead and confirm these and you
guys will be getting connect requests up
in your little plus thing there they
should be from tactic and netted until I
change my name here so let me change
this and you guys can all walk you
through how this is all working they're
put a picture in there and let's put my
email and okay cool and then I'll add
some affinities so affinities are kind
of like those slices that I was talking
about so you might say some things that
you care about so you know we're all
here because of IP FS or offline and you
can select different colors here as well
and the reason for the colors was
eventually we'd like to be able to you
know expose those colors more easily on
this list here so you can easily see the
interest that people have rather than
having to click in there and see so as
you can see you can have some some
scoring elements here that Victor was
talking about so this is like a
scoreboard up here and it shows you your
position in a person in first place so
right now I'm in first for MVP MVP is
just the total number of points you get
certain amount of points for connecting
with somebody you get a certain amount
of points for recommending somebody you
get more points when somebody accepts a
recommendation so on and so forth so
what I can do here for example is I can
go into Jim's profile here
and click send recommendation and I can
say hey Jim you know you should talk
with a victor and what that's gonna do
is it's gonna send Jim he'll see a
little thing up here that says oh you
got a red matte recommendation to meet
Victor so now the hope is that Jim will
go and talk to a victor and then Victor
like hey my codename is such-and-such
I'll type in Victor's codename there and
hit connect and then they'll be
connected so the cool thing about this
is because it's Jim by the way did you
get that I can give you my codename this
is Victor yeah I guess all right yeah so
here's here's a codename for you tasting
tea ast ing space imprecise I am PR EC C
is e and now anybody else that just
heard that can also any and kind of
force a connection between the two of us
your quest to connect has been sent just
in you're recommending that they go find
that person in person you're not doing
anything that shares yeah really now
that's right that's right so it's not
sharing the contact info it's supposed
to basically say hey you should go talk
to this person in real life right and so
they'll need to go and figure out how to
meet up with that person it will include
their public info so it'll have a jim's
picture and his name and if he had put
in an organization it would have that as
well and that would help hopefully help
Jim or Victor find each other so there's
one quick thing Justin to add here is
that code names are generated randomly
for each gathering and they're important
that they be kept secret and that
they're your neat unique so you don't
want to use like a Twitter handle or a
name that you commonly go by as your
code name because presumably then
anybody who knew that about you could
just kind of connect with you at any
gathering so the idea is that you want
to make up something either unique to
that particular gathering some sort of
funny code name that you like or you can
use the the randomly generated code name
that the system spins up for you that's
right so if we look in here I can show
you a little bit about how this is
working so you can see
all of our connected devices here so
we're all connected to each other
sharing this it uses orbit DB which
basically uses pub/sub to synch up
information about the current head of an
append-only log so anytime anybody takes
any action it's adding an items that log
which then gets converted into a data
structure so let me show you what that
data structure looks like and then I'll
show you what that log looks like as
well it's like this might not be the
latest version of this page there we go
so there's this append-only log so you
can see anytime somebody takes action
it's it's writing an entry here and so
for example Oh looks like Dominic just
wrote another something to the log he
updated his member profile here so
there's his name the CID for his avatar
and then his pure ID and then you've got
the public info which is you know his
code name in his public key and then you
have the private info which is encrypted
which I'll explain how that gets
decrypted so that I can then view his
information so now if I look inside of
here I would see you know Dominic's
private stuff all right so let me jump
back here to the little presentation
here and I can show you how that's
working so you have that append-only log
that we looked at and inside of that
append-only log it gets it gets used to
reduce that log back to a data structure
that then gets used within the app so
for example and this is simplified
there's some other data structures in
there there's a there's the members and
inside of the members there are me and
Victor and were ordered by our member ID
and we have our public influent our
private info like you saw there with
dominic and then inside of a connection
people can add themselves to your
connections so if Victor wanted to
connect with me if he sent me a connect
request he'd be adding his member ID to
my connections list and inside of there
there's a little status thing so I can
reject her I can accept Victor's connect
request and then when he sends me that
connect request he's also sending me the
key to unlock
private info encrypted with my public
key which only I cannot decrypt because
I've got my private key here on my
device so that's how that gathering DB
basically works offline so what that
means is that I could connect with Terry
even if my device isn't connected to the
Internet and it's going to append to
that log and she could do the same
connect with me and then it'll append to
the log and then when we come back
online
I'll get this request added to my
connections and then I'll be able to use
that to unlock her info so that way we
can still connect with each other even
when we're disconnected for one reason
or another or if the Wi-Fi spotty and
slow it'll still work as fast as our
device want it to work and then sync up
later
any questions there before I keep moving
okay yeah go ahead so in case Oh in case
there's no connectivity how the device
is connected to synchronize a huge I
mean bluetooth oh yeah
yeah we'll get to that okay that's a
great question and and yeah we'll get
there
let's see I'll talk about this gathering
snapshot thing later that was one of the
things we learned at my PFS camp so I'm
gonna keep moving here so here's how it
works right now like Jim talked about in
his intro there decentralized sort of
browsers have to use WebSockets right
now to to communicate with the ipfs
network there's not a way for them to
directly connect with each other unless
they manually swap signaling info for
WebRTC connections which is kind of
unfeasible it's a little bit more
feasible when you start to do it in
person but it's a such a large amount of
data it's still kind of a pain there's
been experiments about doing it with you
know scanning QR codes at the same time
to swap the info but nothing's great yet
so this kind of how things are working
right now what that means is that if
there was a disconnect and they couldn't
connect to this WebSocket relay
the thing that's acting like that p2p
relay they wouldn't be able to share
data with each other so kind of
decentralized more like it's not what we
thought we could do is you could
theoretically create like an app that
goes on somebody's phone and they could
be the the gathering organizer and what
that could do is they could then you
know do the they could allow devices to
tether to their phone or to their
computer or whatever and then they could
run the app on their phone to basically
host a WebSocket server that then the
devices could connect to and then use
that that relay basically send all the
data through that device as well so that
way they could still be within their own
little network operating inside of a
cave whatever without having to be
connected to the wider Internet and it
should technically work as far as seeing
this something that works like that I
haven't seen anything that quite works
like that but I think that it could work
so maybe we'll work on something like
that eventually ideally how it would
work is something like this where all
the devices can just communicate with
each other through WebRTC and signaling
magic which doesn't quite exist yet or
with Bluetooth unfortunately as far as I
know you can't access bluetooth through
the browser yet but probably given time
that might happen and maybe there will
even be wrappers for it looks like I got
a little checker
wrappers for
oh it can't work okay yeah you should
tell me about that do you want to talk
about that Yanis right so are you
talking about dice or the the previous
slide all right a big football but maybe
maybe it's better for you to finish what
he won't say to avoid anything and then
let's come back to this then all right
so some things that we'd like to see I'm
going to come back to this too I want to
talk about the lesson Private Eye PFS
camp first so one of the things that we
learned really early on is that the
public ipfs relays and swarms available
for WebSockets and web RTC are really
slow they're full of a lot of dead nodes
and it makes it really hard for peers to
find each other um so when we went to
camp we tried to on board the first few
people and they couldn't find the
database and they couldn't find the
other peers because there was just too
many dead nodes out there that they
couldn't it would essentially timeout
before they could make the connection so
we switched to a private signaling
server and it was way faster the next
thing is bad Wi-Fi ruins parties
so at ipfs camp the Wi-Fi was getting
hammered because there was so many
people using it doing a ton of different
things and so it was just really slow so
even though it could work offline
onboarding people was really slow
because they'd be downloading a ton of
different dag entries for this op log
that was eventually a thousand records
law which kind of leads to this next
thing is CR DT op logs are have a ton of
overhead if you're doing small
operations it's almost like a 10x or
100x overhead just because of the extra
information that needs to be included to
basically verify who did it and at what
time they made that operation so for
example at the end of ipfs camp the the
OP log was 30 megabytes for a almost 200
kilobyte data set which is pretty crazy
there's probably much better ways to do
that I think deltas have have looked
interesting
it's more to look into there another
thing we learned is to always use a
buddy and what I mean by that is is when
you're onboarding somebody they're going
to be scanning the QR code on your phone
and your your phone is on so they should
be able to connect directly to your
phone and get that data from you and so
back when I talked about the snapshots
one thing that we learned is that you
don't have to wait for the whole op log
to download instead what you can do is
you can give that that person that's
onboarding a snapshot of the current
state that you have and send that to
them and then and then let them slowly
download the OP log from the rest of the
network including you to then basically
have all that they need to continue to
operate and verify the state that you
gave them but this allows them to
basically onboard immediately and then
start having fun inside the gathering
without having to wait five minutes for
the list of everything that everybody's
done to download last thing was if you
don't have debug info inside of the
thing or some way to get to the bug
information it's gonna be really hard to
figure out what's going on since there's
not so with centralized systems it's
it's easier to kind of debug what's
happening because because you can track
everything you can see all the requests
coming in but with decentralized systems
there is no back end it's all within
that front end app and so it's really
helpful to have some loading info and
some debug info in there that can help
you kind of see how things are working
so that was it for ipfs camp lessons
last thing I'd like to talk about before
we go into questions and potential
solutions is things that we'd like to
see one of the things that we're really
interested in is the idea of a baked in
ipfs node into like a browser or into a
browser page kind of like lunette I
don't know if you guys have heard about
that essentially what they're doing
there is they're making it so that you
can browse ipfs content inside of
essentially a browser that has ipfs
embedded it's kind of crazy so that
would be really cool
because if you did that then you could
make it so that people could pull that
content from your device without having
gone to that web page but
so it starts to get into that solution
that I thought would be awesome which is
you know I I come to this event there
offline but this person has the
gathering on their phone I can then get
the gathering from their phone and use
it on myself so that starts to help with
that the next thing is built-in peer
discovery on mobile devices web browsers
right now as far as I know the best way
to do that is through signaling and
relays it'd be really cool if we had the
ability to use like mdns within local
networks to be able to have devices find
each other I'd be cool and then
detaching users from devices what I mean
by that is is sure you know if I have my
phone here you can say this is me but I
also have a computer that I use and it'd
be great it's more easier for me to be
able to use both without having to worry
about trying to swap keys between them
instead having something that that is me
that persists between every device that
I use and then maybe being able to have
my my user information my data stored
somewhere else of my choosing
so that's gonna be helpful to see that
and then composable components and
functions within ipfs what I mean by
that is is we build a lot of front-end
frameworks we build a lot of tools with
front-end frameworks like react and they
base things on components and it would
be really cool if we could start to make
reusable components that you could then
use to basically compose applications
out of those components and what I mean
by that is is if we could make it so for
example in the gathering I could expose
you know this little component here that
is me and make it so that that's usable
in other apps that that would be cool
because then we could allow people to
start to put together their own apps
essentially or we reuse datasets and
components from other apps so I could
take this and put it inside of a
decentralized Twitter or I could take my
Instagram feed and put it inside of a
inside of the gathering or something
like that so definitely interested in
seeing something like that
any questions that was that was it for
my presentation here
all right yeah so you're honest I'd like
to hear what you were gonna say about
how this could work right so I might be
off topic I've got a few things that we
have seen around before so you saying
that the problem is that you can the
browser cannot see the Bluetooth
connection and that's why you cannot
connect two devices between them is a
current yeah that's right as far as I
know there's not a P is for the browser
to be able to talk to via bluetooth okay
I can have a look at that because we've
been doing something quite similar but
in case in any case if you use have used
Wi-Fi direct because that's completely
that's you know there's a device that
you have on the top there the gathering
owner or group can be the Wi-Fi group
owner say and then all other connects
all other devices what they see is
effectively they're connected to a Wi-Fi
access point so doesn't need to know if
it's connected to another device or or
to you know to Wi-Fi access point yeah
yeah I mean what I was thinking here is
for example I know that you have the
ability to tether devices to your phone
so if I turn on my my personal hotspot
here I don't know if you guys can see
that then what it does is it essentially
connects us up creates a Wi-Fi network
that devices can connect to so the
thought is is doing that even if my
phone's not connected to the Internet
it's creating a network that the other
devices can connect to so essentially
doing what you were saying Yanis
creating an ability for other devices to
connect directly to the device that
would then be kind of like the
facilitator for the gathering all right
it seems like a pretty good stopgap for
the limitations that we have currently
mmm okay yeah so bluetooth is kind of
restricted in some of these cases but
what we've we're doing these that
we're we're using a combination of
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi direct so that one
of them does the service discovery and
the other one is actually connecting and
transferring data but I say I mean I can
dig through but the other thing is that
I've seen recently from some colleagues
of what they did these actually they
didn't do this on the mobile phone but
what they did is they show you have some
raspberry pie or something which is in
the same area and this is effectively
doing the web server and you run what
you want to run as an instant web or
progressive web app or whatever it's
called
so it's effectively the server ease of
the Raspberry Pi and all the other
devices they can connect to that and you
don't need to have connectivity to the
rest of the world because you're doing
everything locally mm-hmm so this they
basically create a network from the
Raspberry Pi and then the other devices
connect to that yeah yeah yeah I mean
okay this is not how can I say it's not
super convenient because you have to
have this other device and you have to
have it plugged in but they did that
because yeah for several reasons just as
an extra thing when people don't want to
download applications yeah yeah well
it's interesting too because it's not
unfeasible for somebody that's going to
initiate the gathering to have some kind
of app on their phone to start that but
what it allows is it makes it so that
not everybody has to have the app
instead just one person has to have it
and the rest can just use a browser
which right is is fine because then they
don't have to download an app which is
kind of what we're wanting to solve we
don't want to force people to download
something just for a one-time use kind
of thing all right yeah yeah cool I
think
if you wonder can I can have a look at
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi direct and what's
happening with the browsers themselves
and I can let you know I can't remember
it's been some times that I looked into
this cool yeah I'd appreciate that
I'd be really helpful if you guys have
any questions I actually have some
questions for you guys then something
that I've been spending a lot of time
looking into is more efficient ways to
store the data that we use here like I
talked about there's quite a bit of
overhead with the OP log approach and
and it kind of forces it to not scale
very well we want to be able to support
a gathering where there's a thousand
people and they're making connections
with you know ten fifteen other people
at this at the event and right now it
just really wouldn't work very well that
would result in you know 60 70 80
megabytes of data which I think
technically you can't even do in indexdb
on mobile device I think they kind of
limit you to like 50 so what that means
is that it's kind of constrained to
small gatherings now which is not where
we want to be so I know that Jim spent a
lot of time working on on peer base and
Delta C Rd T's what would you recommend
is maybe a better way to keep peers in
sync knowing that they're going to be on
and off during the duration of this
collaborative thing yeah I think there's
a there's a lot of sort of researchy
sort of projects in the area and pure
base is one of them I'm not exactly sure
how much memory it would take if you had
like a thousand people with a you know a
full profile stored in memory it's it's
going to store most of it in JavaScript
but then it'll in store like these
interested blobs in but it does it does
use a binary encoding so it might
actually be a little bit less space than
or
tbh I have to compare also also at ipfs
camp there is Viktor Khristenko and he's
working on something called replicated
object notation and that's his thing is
like really compressing down the data
they get stored into this few bits as
possible and that's a really interesting
project but it's very much research
stage so cool all right
oh-ha slick into that awesome well
thanks guys thanks for taking the time
to do the little demo with me and for
connecting with me on on the gathering
and yeah feel free to reach out if you
guys have any questions and thanks
thanks for sharing it's awesome any
other questions before we move on to
more kind of event recap stuff
all right so let's start with ipfs camp
I think all of us were there right is
that where I met URI honest does it did
anybody come across a part from The
Gathering did anybody come across other
interesting projects in this kind of
cross over the web offline space that
they wanna share did you oh sorry go
ahead like people I know something that
comes up related to bluetooth is Bertie
had a lot of they had a stand during
science fair showing Bluetooth transport
and they plan to open source it I
believe at some point so it's something
to look at or look forward because that
would be a way of solving local
discovery and also yeah something a lot
of things so I'm really exciting about
so it can you repeat a little bit yeah
parity technologies it's like company I
believe and they created a lot of low
energy transport for the p2p you can
share pointer I
I'll dig a link and paste it down the
shot
so anyone else see cool stuff at camp
yeah did you guys have a chance to play
the interspace tag interplanetary tag
that the textile guys had put together
so they were using a textile thread to
essentially play tag so what it would do
is you'd hide it'd never get tagged I've
participated but I did never get tagged
and I was never it so I don't know
exactly how it works but basically the
idea was that you would have people
joined the scheme of tag and then
somebody would get tagged it and then
they had to go and tag somebody else and
I guess it was something like scanning a
QR code or something like that to
essentially tag that yeah everyone right
you were you were obligated to scan if
you got
that was super cool I liked um
Jerome's project about basically when he
goes to conferences and stuff like that
he wanted a way to play with this cat so
he came up with this way of like using
lib peer-to-peer to control a laser and
a camera at home so while he's away you
know he can connect them just
peer-to-peer do that and then he was
talking about
well since it's already peer-to-peer why
don't we just like aggregate these
things so you could have the service
where you could play with a random cat
like cat roulette and I thought that
that was a fantastic little project so I
saw that
the gathering is also pretty cool
you
anything else fun was anyone here at D
Web camp I didn't make it
nope okay I think so there are a couple
of people who were there including Molly
but who can't make spell today so we may
end up getting some feedback from them
on a later call is there anything else
that people would like to chat about
today we have another 14 minutes the
first more stuff people want to talk
about
you
yes I don't I am really bad at
multitasking but I pass the link to the
tweet with some details about the blood
of transport in case you want to fall
that's coming back to the problem of
local discovery in web browser that's
something very close to my problem
that's like a my problem space and we
had some improvements related to IP and
s that sort of introduced concept of
something like ipfs beacon for local
networks so things like gathering copy
but when we saw we try to make them work
in venues which had very tricky
situation of upstream internet
connection which we usually do we run
like a local like we run local signaling
server basic and the idea is to make it
less explicit and make it sort of like a
and ambient service so right now you can
run things like NTP server you have you
can have the DNS server on your local
network you can have mass storage and
those some of those things like Mass
Storage can announce itself on a local
network using a DNS when it effectively
gets something that local host name so
it's like a very rough idea but that the
idea was to sort of have a prepackaged a
service that could run that you can run
in your local network or
network of a conference of insiders that
would provide those signaling services
and maybe some pinning services and
things like that
for ipfs notes and that would announce
itself on both mdns for others to
connect to it as well as get this
something that local host name that
every node in the local network can
access it through and what when it gets
interesting is when you get actual host
name that host knee can be like
well-known predefined so then web
browser nodes can just check if there's
anything there and you get like this
like rube Goldberg's a machine like
scheme of a local discovery so the web
browser node can just check if there's
like a local beacon that it can access
any fits there it it would expose like
HTTP service right so the note in web
browser could just ask it for stuff make
API calls and we have like concepts of
we are have a work in progress for
things like delegated routing and things
like that so that could be like a short
circuiting short circuit just oh there's
a beacon on my local network so I
prioritize this because I know it's here
so that's like more like a problem space
to think of then like actually thing I
thought it's interesting to mention on
this conference yeah this there's
another aspect of this where I'm
thinking of not exactly offline but you
have multiple users in one physical
locations and there's one around a moon
but they're actually on different
networks they might be on their cell
phones so it's like maybe they're all
connected to the Internet but how do
they find each other
like if they all like Rhonda they all
talk to the same server and say maybe
the Geo
and saying you're something new GPS then
they can find each other
I don't know so it's like is it the same
problem with a different problem I think
it's like a more generalized if we think
about more generous problem of like
local discovery local discovery might
may mean local network but also like
geofencing and I sort of remembered
another discussion I had with some folks
are during her ipfs camp about like
local discovery by something like the
physical proximity mainly in the same
room so I'm not sure if you are familiar
Google has this product called
chromecast you plug this small pen drive
like thingy to HDMI port TV and it you
can just cast videos there and it's
actually interesting because if you are
on the same network then it pops up on
your Android phone oh there's a screen
you can cast your videos too however it
also works and you are not on the same
network and that's interesting right how
it works so I did some spelunking can
turns out day 10 so that's like a splash
screen for chromecast it's basically
like a HDMI screen so it's provides
audio and video so there's like a code
on the screen displayed in you are in
case you want to manually pair with it I
did not enter in the code and it still
showed on the list right so there's must
be something else so this thing that's
something else thing is audio what is
happening in our at least it was in past
the chromecast was playing very I think
it was like ultra very high or very low
sounds that people were not able to
register but your phone was able to
register so that's like one way to do
local discovery I think it's been
interesting things to think about
that's why I think I wonder if you could
do that with signaling data for WebRTC
connections
honestly I dig deeper on that like
rabbit Hall of companies just putting
sounds and turns out when you got like
assistants like Alexa or like Google
home or those things like that and when
you have like commercials in the TV
about those products people there are
speaking those key words but those key
words do not trigger you're right so in
the commercial itself before the key
word is said they as well just put some
sounds that people are not able to
assistance to ignore this it's like
audible skip college yes crazy
those things are rampant it's like very
popular thing to just end it sounds that
people don't can hear but your devices
are aware of those songs it's amazing I
worked on a project that did that for a
little bit where they were transmitting
sound a data over sound and this was a
while ago but I remember one of the
problems with it was a lot of like a lot
of data trained it in the transfer like
there was so much noise and like you
needed so much parity and all the stuff
to reconstruct the data that was the
primary concern I don't know how things
have evolved since then but apparently
it's good enough for Google do you know
what like the throughput was just that
kind of connection I can't remember but
it was not good
yeah I'd imagine it's pretty low it's
it's low and you have to retransmit so
much but if we are able to basically
like signal that join this pops up room
and wait for instructions yes we talked
about also in this call previously a
nasty hack of like using almost similar
to what you were saying Lydell where
instead of an HTTP server you would
basically set up like an SMB or like a
CIFS share
and do have all like the empty enough
stuff around that where you can have
host names or like domain names whatever
you want to use and basically like
hijacking that to put instead of naming
the share you would basically name it
your multi adder or something like that
and use something else to connect to it
but then also use the share itself to
like transfer ipfs over if I don't know
how that would work in browsers but like
at the OS level we were trying to think
of like how do we get ipfs on a machine
that doesn't have ipfs already and it
was like send it over SMB and then use
the share name to bootstrap essentially
and it was it was just a weird thing
never went further than that
that's like actually like pretty clean
way to do boots like yeah
but those sounds man those sounds
yeah all right so we have four minutes
left
Yanis would you like to give us a sneak
preview just say a couple words about
the thing that you'll show us probably
on our next call right yes so you have
to be very brief I don't have slides
with me right now Aries so what we've
done these we have built a library which
effectively and and a very simple
application on top of it we're
effectively devices connect individually
from one device to the other
irrespective of the network and they
share they can share files between them
so you can think of that as I mean
social network type of thing where the
reason there is a group that we can say
okay we can call it group ABC and then
our content we share in this group then
you know other devices when they see
something that they don't have they're
going to connect and synchronize
themselves with the device that actually
has the content so as I said before the
way we do that is we use both Bluetooth
Low Energy
mainly for service discovery but then
the data is transferred over Wi-Fi
direct because that's higher throughput
connections and yeah the current
implementation is that's you know
effectively nodes advertise what they
have through a through bloom filter the
other devices see and they compared what
they have and that's how they realize
whether they actually they're missing
something that has been published
elsewhere and they connect to get the
new content so devices do not connect
randomly they just connect homely when
they see that you know one of them has
got something that others don't and
that's how comes in can propagate
actually through devices when they
polic 80s and yeah we've got pretty
stable Android application for that can
be used for many we've stress tested
that for large files have to event if
you convert megabytes something like
that and it's quite stable yeah and if
you have its both data hope so if you
want to if you have done very devices
and want to play around with age I mean
it's not super beautiful or anything yet
yeah it's something it's kind of usable
and useful what was the name of it data
hub yes yes okay that sounds very cool
we will look forward to a demo on one of
our upcoming calls so just so everyone
is aware we did this call at the not our
normal week of the month this month the
next one should be August 21st its next
time we'll see each other so the third
Wednesday in August same time I'll start
a new issue in the repo so it's a ipfs
slash local - offline - collab is the
repo so if you want to watch that repo
to make sure that you see those
notifications when they come up and I
usually take people who might want to
attend and say a little something about
what we'll be talking about and the
agenda duck that we've been looking at
together as always there for you to add
agenda items to and on that on the note
side of that I would love it
occasionally I will miss a few words or
don't when the words that fly by me
aren't ones I understand I take worse
notes so if any of you have time to pop
in there right now and fix up the notes
I just took for this call that would be
awesome but it was great to see everyone
thank you Justin and Victor for sharing
the gathering so it was really cool to
see kind of more under the hood than we
had time to necessarily at ipfx camp so
very cool and we hope to see everybody
next month
yep thank you Thanks